>> Jon Kuperman: This is not
about necessarily fixing or
understanding what changed in the code,
it's more about getting comfortable.
I'd love it if you're able to
open up a performance profile,
run it on your site and
just start gleaning information.
Do I have an issue,
do I not have an issue?
Am I dropping frames?
What's slow?
Just kind of understanding things.
So as we go into to this exercise,
which we'll see here under exercises, and
then CPU or layout thrashing,
we'll see this kind of animation, and
you can just visually tell that this
animation is struggling, right?
As you're looking at it, it's struggling.
And then there's an optimize button,
and when you click the optimize button,
it's the same animation, but
it's running a lot faster.
Now, it's not about figuring out,
reading the source code and
figuring out how it was made a lot faster.
If you had to guess, I would hope you
would guess that it either uses request
animation frames or CSS transforms.
But regardless of that, what I'd love for
you to do is just spend a few minutes,
go to the page unoptimized and
run the profile on it.
Is it obvious to you that frames are being
dropped, that things are struggling, and
then hit optimize and
see what's different.
Compare function times did
a function like a movement function,
take a lot longer, a lot less long,
just kind of getting your feet wet and
getting familiar with this kind of thing.
So take a few minutes to do that, and
then we'll kinda go through all the nitty
gritty details together afterwards.
All right, hope,
everybody fared okay with this.
So yeah,
let's just kind of take a look together,
we can kind of cover exactly what changed.
But I think the idea is they're
pretty universal, where it's,
do I have a problem?
If I do have a problem and I'm dropping
frames, can I do either less work or
kick some of it off to a CSS
transform request animation frame or
chunk it in some way basically.
It's not the business logic
implementation will be hard, but
figuring out kind of what needs to be
done shouldn't be hard to say, hey,
this is too expensive,
we're losing frames, let's figure it out.
So go ahead and open the DevTools,
and I'll do a performance audit,
just make sure I get some of this
janky key stuff in there and
then I'll let it do its thing and
kind of load.
So it loads up, I'm gonna kind of move
this a little bit to the bottom here for
now and we're gonna just kind
of focus on the main thread.
So you can see that we are, well,
this actually will probably look very
different based on laptop, I think
that's like one important thing to call
out is that your CPU ability to handle.
These are all CPU bound things, right.
There's a bunch of JavaScript
doing calculations, and
that is gonna be very much
limited by your processor, so
I have a multi-year-old MacBook,
so it's probably in the middle.
If you had something brand new,
you might see no page junk at all and
if you had something much older, you would
probably see a tremendous amount of red.
Again, it's just using as
much CPU as it can, so
it's really about how much CPU
your computer has to offer.
Did everybody see something like this?
Some red, it's not varying amounts of red
on there, perhaps more, perhaps less.
Great, so we can kind of zoom in and
again, the controls take a little bit of
getting used to, but scrolling up and down
will work if the call stacks very tall.
But Command on Mac or
Control on Windows and
then scrolling will sort of let
you get in here on these things.
So again, kind of trying to simplify
this information so we can see okay,
this is running,
it's doing a lot of JavaScript, right?
We can tell by how much yellow
is running across the time,
it's very JavaScript heavy.
If it was doing a small amount of
JavaScript but a lot repainting,
then we would just see a lot of green and
purple across it.
But we're actually seeing that it's
doing a lot of repainting, and
that green and purple is caused by yellow,
which is JavaScript.
So that's where the work is coming from,
we're CPU bound.
I think one of my hopes here is
that it's almost with just this and
some deductive reasoning you can actually
make it quite far into diagnosing your
application issue without getting into
the source code and the business logic.
You can say, okay, this app is doing a lot
of stuff, it stays busy and steady state,
it's JavaScript constrained.
So you already could be thinking like,
I wonder if we could kick some
things off to a web worker.
I wonder if we could use request
animation frame things like that.
We're definitely dropping some frames,
not dropping all the frames,
but we've got some things
that are really struggling.
And if we zoom in and kind of try to
figure out what's taking a long time, we
can see that the function itself with the
large self-time is this moveBalls method.
And if we click on that, we can kind
of open it up in the source code.
And again,
since we ran the performance tab,
we can see that the source
code has highlighted for
us here that this animation loop is the
thing that is causing a lot of this pain.
So I don't wanna get too far
into the business logic.
This is a bit contrived, but the basic
idea is that I have the exact same code
for all these different balls, and they
all in each tick get new coordinates, and
they move to those new coordinates.
In the unoptimized version, we're doing
the thing that we talked about earlier
where we're doing a bunch of reads,
then we're setting the positions,
then we're reading again in
order to do collision detection.
So we're doing things kind
of all out of order, right?
And then if we go ahead,
I'm gonna close this for a second, and
we hit optimize, we can kind of visually
see that things feel a lot smoother.
Again, this will depend on your hardware,
but it should be pretty evident.
And then if we go ahead and
we run another performance and
just kind of mess around with it a little
bit, we should see a similar, but
quite a different looking performance
analysis, it's still the same code path.
It's still doing kind of the same things,
but the time that it has taken is
now very visibly smaller, right?
We were seeing these wide yellow
rectangles and now we're seeing narrow,
yellow rectangles and actually what might
be the most interesting let's see if we
restart and I'll do a recording.
Let it be unoptimized for a second,
then let it be optimized for a second,
then stop the recording.
We should really be able to
see here a comparison of when
the code changes over from the unoptimized
version to the optimized version.
This can also be really nice when
you're working on performance stuff and
you wanna prove that what you did actually
made the app faster as opposed to just
things that make the app
theoretically faster, yeah?
>> Student 1: In a practical scenario,
how would you do that?
Would you build a similar button that's
gonna pull down different code, or like?
>> Jon Kuperman: I might do that,
I think probably what I would do is
I would do a recording beforehand and
then I would download it in some way,
or I would just save that profile open.
And I would grab a few things like for
example,
if we go to bottom up and
we go to the largest self-time and
find one of these functions that are ours
like somewhere, like move balls.
Okay, on my first recording I spent,
whatever it is, 1,800 milliseconds in this
function over a five-second recording,
I try to match as many things as possible.
So then make the changes to the code,
build that, and
then do another five-second recording and
see what the difference is in the time,
some things like that.
>> Student 1: Is there a convention
to share these between a team, or
like how would a team?
>> Jon Kuperman: These are standardized
files, you can download one,
name it whatever you want,
you can send it to anybody else.
Then all you have to do is open DevTools,
go to performance, and then import one,
and you can get the whole thing there.
So we do this quite a bit,
like somebody reports an issue at work and
we're having trouble reproducing it,
we'll ask for one of these HARs, and
then they can send the HAR.
We don't have the application, but
we at least have this
profile to kinda run through.
>> Student 1: So a good place to put them
is this a Git type activity, an issue, or?
>> Jon Kuperman: That's a good question,
yeah.
>> Student 1: Where would
you store something?
>> Jon Kuperman: I mean, we just kind of
store them all internally on Google Drive
or something like that.
But I could see this being a really
cool thing if you uploaded it and
then put it in a GitHub issue, I could see
that being tremendously helpful, yeah.
You'll get it a lot if you file tickets
against the Chrome DevTools team,
they'll always ask for them.
If you're, I'm seeing this issue,
they're let me get a hard to reproduce,
so yeah, there are reasonably small binary
files that can be loaded by the DevTools.
And they are stable, so I mean,
I don't know what the guarantee is, but
they do work for extended period of time.
So here we can get this pretty nice
visualization where you can just plainly
see where we went from the unoptimized and
the wider yellow to the optimized and
the more narrow yellow.
And you can also see that while we had
these kind of huge chunks before where we
would lose frames for
a significant period of time,
in the optimized version we are still
dropping frames from time to time.
But it's much more like a sporadic
occasional thing happening, and so yeah,
I think there's, again,
without getting too deep into it.
I would hope that throughout this workshop
you just get a little bit more comfortable
kind of like move just moving around
on these things, clicking on them.
And then going to the summary and
connecting through to the source code.
Identifying things like what the thing
with the longest self-time is, or
what our function with the longest
self-time is like in scripting these.
This anonymous function that calls
move balls is the longest one,
just having ways that you can't break
anything by clicking around inside here.
So to kind of capture a recording start,
kind of understanding how
CPU bound things are.
Before you even think about
the business logic for
fixing it, how constrained are you,
how much of a problem it is,
what areas in the code base
are kind of causing this issue?
How long is it really taking?
And from there,
I guess the harder jump would be, okay,
well we know we are losing frames, we
are CPU bound, move balls is the problem.
Yes it'll get difficult on a business
logic to figure out how to optimize
a function.
But I think it's really powerful, rather
than hey, my app is slow to come and say,
hey, my app is slow because move balls
is being called and taking too long,
we're dropping frames.
It's a big difference when you're
kind of investigating things so
how's everybody feeling?
I know it's a little bit heavy, but
Billy's loosely about processing these.